[VAULT-38465] Cumulative API docs (#1050)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v1.21.x (rc)/content/api-docs/system/internal-counters.mdx

    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/internal/counters/activity?end_time=2020-06-30T00%3A00%3A00Z&start_time=2020-06-01T00%3A00%3A00Z&limit_namespaces=2
```

## Cumulative namespace client count

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

This endpoint returns a by-namespace breakdown of client activity for a given billing period. The response
gives _cumulative_ namespace client counts: the total number of unique clients that had activity not just in each namespace
but also in its children, grandchildren, etc. This is in contrast to the `sys/internal/counters/activity` endpoint's
`by_namespace` breakdown which returns only the client activity that occurred directly within each namespace.

<Note title="Tech preview">

This endpoint is currently in tech preview status. The API call and response format
are subject to change in future releases.

</Note>

> There are a few things to keep in mind while using this API.
> 
> - The response contains the total activity for the requested billing period, represented by the `start_time` and `end_time`
>   parameters. Only entire billing periods can be queried. If the requested time parameters do not align with a complete billing period,
>   Vault will adjust the request to the full billing period associated with the provided times. If both start and end times are provided
>   and they do not fall within the same billing period, the billing period associated with the `start_time` will be used.
>   The response will detail the actual time period covered, along with a warning if the requested times were adjusted.
> 
> - Unlike the `sys/internal/counters/activity` endpoint, this endpoint does not return a breakdown of activity by month,
>   nor does it include mount level attributions.
> 
> - This endpoint can be called from all namespaces. The requested namespace will act as a filter. The response will include activity for the requested
>   namespace and all of its children.
> 
> - If a namespace has subsequently been deleted, its path will be listed as `deleted namespace :ID:`. Deleted
>   namespaces are reported only for queries made from the root namespace because information about the namespace path is unknown.
>   For this same reason, deleted namespaces do not contribute to the cumulative counts of their parent namespaces,
>   only to the root namespace. In other words, deleted namespaces are treated as direct children of the root namespace.
> 
> <Warning>
> 
> If the number of namespaces with client activity during the requested billing period approaches or exceeds the [default
> maximum](/vault/docs/internals/limits#namespace-limits), the request may take several seconds to complete. To prevent
> impacting the performance of the Vault cluster, avoid making another request to this endpoint until the previous one
> has completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the values provided for `start_time` and `end_time`, Vault can
only return totals for whole billing periods. If the requested time parameters
do not align with a complete billing period, Vault adjusts the request to the
full billing period associated with the provided times.

The endpoint response always includes the actual time period covered in addition
to the client counts. If Vault adjusts the query period, the result also
includes a warning about the adjusted query times.

If `start_time` and `end_time` do not fall within the same billing period, Vault
uses to the billing period associated with `start_time`.

```
We should just describe how the endpoint works rather than trying to frame it as "things to know". The additional information was folded into other sections

</Warning>

| Method | Path                                         |
|:-------|:---------------------------------------------|
| `GET`  | `/sys/internal/counters/activity/cumulative` |

### Parameters

- `start_time` `(string, optional)` - An RFC3339 timestamp or Unix epoch time. Specifies the start of the
  period for which client counts will be reported. If no start time is specified, the billing start time will be used.
- `end_time` `(string, optional)` - An RFC3339 timestamp or Unix epoch time. Specifies the end of the period
  for which client counts will be reported. If no end time is specified, the end of current month will be used.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request GET \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/internal/counters/activity/cumulative
```

### Response fields

- `by_namespace` - a map from namespace path to an object containing the cumulative client counts for that namespace
  and all of its children, and the namespace ID.

> - `total` - the total cumulative client counts for the requested billing period, across all included namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `total` - the total cumulative client counts for the requested billing period across all included namespaces.
```

    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/internal/counters/activity?end_time=2020-06-30T00%3A00%3A00Z&start_time=2020-06-01T00%3A00%3A00Z&limit_namespaces=2
```

## Cumulative namespace client count

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

> <Note title="Tech preview">

Author: I took out the second paragraph and made it a proper alert also used by the Export API

client activity in said namespace plus all descendant namespaces.

To query client counts for deleted namespaces, you must call the endpoint from
`root` since the original namespace path is unknown. As a result,
deleted namespaces do not contribute to the cumulative counts of any namespace
other than `root`. 

<Tip title="Related endpoint">

For client counts isolated to each namespace, grouped by month, or to see
mount-level attribution, use `sys/internal/counters/activity`.

</Tip>

Regardless of the values provided for `start_time` and `end_time`, Vault can
only return totals for whole billing periods. If the requested time parameters
do not align with a complete billing period, Vault adjusts the request to the
full billing period associated with the provided times.

The endpoint response always includes the actual time period covered in addition
to the client counts. If Vault adjusts the query period, the result also
includes a warning about the adjusted query times.

If `start_time` and `end_time` do not fall within the same billing period, Vault
uses the billing period associated with `start_time`.

> <Warning>

Author: @schavis I added this warning back in, it was removed but I didn't see the information included elsewhere

Reviewer: I know I edited it because I moved the text and removed the warning tag 🤔 I'm not sure what happened

Author: It probably blended in with the other text 😄 Thanks for editing it!

do not align with a complete billing period, Vault adjusts the request to the
full billing period associated with the provided times.

The endpoint response always includes the actual time period covered in addition
to the client counts. If Vault adjusts the query period, the result also
includes a warning about the adjusted query times.

If `start_time` and `end_time` do not fall within the same billing period, Vault
uses the billing period associated with `start_time`.

<Warning>

If the number of namespaces in the response approaches or exceeds the
[default maximum](/vault/docs/internals/limits#namespace-limits), the request
may take several seconds to complete. To prevent impacting the performance of
your Vault cluster, avoid making multiple requests to the cumulative count
endpoint at once. Consider setting a [rate limit quota](/vault/docs/configuration/create-rate-limit-quota)
on the endpoint to prevent excessive requests.

</Warning>

| Method | Path                                         |
|:-------|:---------------------------------------------|
| `GET`  | `/sys/internal/counters/activity/cumulative` |

### Parameters

> - `start_time` `(string, optional)` - An RFC3339 timestamp or Unix epoch time

Reviewer 2: Similarily, start_time will always be aligned to the start of a billing period

Author: Changed the wording to specify start of the billing period
